 Sri Lanka's documented history goes back 3,000 years, with
              evidence of prehistoric human settlements that dates back at least
              125,000 years.[13] It has a rich cultural heritage. The earliest
              known Buddhist writings of Sri Lanka, known collectively as the
              Pāli canon, date to the fourth Buddhist council, which took place
              in 29 BCE.[14][15] Also called the Teardrop of India, or the
              Granary of the East, Sri Lanka's geographic location and deep
              harbours have made it of great strategic importance, from the
              earliest days of the ancient Silk Road trade route to today's
              so-called maritime Silk Road. [16][17][18] Because its location
              made it a major trading hub, it was already known to both Far
              Easterners and Europeans as long ago as the Anuradhapura period.
              The country's trade in luxury goods and spices attracted traders
              of many nations, which helped to create Sri Lanka's diverse
              population. During a period of great political crisis in the
              Sinhalese kingdom of Kotte, the Portuguese arrived in Sri Lanka
              (largely by accident) and then sought to control the island's
              maritime regions and its lucrative external trade. Part of Sri
              Lanka became a Portuguese possession. After the
              Sinhalese-Portuguese war, the Dutch and the Kingdom of Kandy took
              control of those areas. The Dutch possessions were then taken by
              the British, who later extended their control over the whole
              island, colonising it from 1815 to 1948. A national movement for
              political independence arose in the early 20th century, and in
              1948, Ceylon became a dominion. The dominion was succeeded by the
              republic named Sri Lanka in 1972. Sri Lanka's more recent history
              was marred by a 26-year civil war, which began in 1983 and ended
              decisively in 2009, when the Sri Lanka Armed Forces defeated the
              Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam.[19] Today, Sri Lanka is a
              multinational state, home to diverse cultures, languages, and
              ethnicities. The Sinhalese are the majority of the nation's
              population. The Tamils, who are a large minority group, have also
              played an influential role in the island's history. Other long
              established groups include the Moors, the Burghers, the Malays,
              the Chinese, and the indigenous Vedda.[20] The island has had a
              long history of engagement with modern international groups: it is
              a founding member of the SAARC and a member of the United Nations,
              the Commonwealth of Nations, the G77, and the Non-Aligned
              Movement. Sri Lanka is the highest-ranked South Asian nation on
              the Human Development Index and has the second-highest per capita
              income in South Asia; however, the ongoing economic crisis has
              resulted in the collapse of the currency, rising inflation, and a
              humanitarian crisis due to a severe shortage of essentials. It has
              also led to an eruption of street protests, with citizens
              demanding that the President and the government step
              down.[21]Asian nation on the Human Development Index and has the
              second-highest per capita income in South Asia; however, the
              ongoing economic crisis has resulted in the collapse of the
              currency, rising inflation, and a humanitarian crisis due to a
              severe shortage of essentials. It has also led to an eruption of
              street protests,